# Data Guide

In this section, we will investigate the data tables and how you can
insert, update and delete data in the collections.

## Basics

At the top of the page, you will notice the **All Events** and **All
Collections** tabs. You can insert/update/delete data from collections
using **All Collections** tab, whereas the **All Events** tab is used
for inserting new or updating existing data in a simplified and
structured way.

## All Events

All Events are listed in the initial dropdown. Please see the example
below:

![image](../images/allevents.png){.align-center width="99.0%"}

Here you can simply select the action you want to perform. As an
example, **Update Patient Visit** is selected and form fields are loaded
as below:

![image](../images/events_patient_visit.png){.align-center width="99.0%"}

You can either choose or type patient name to select patient from
dropdown:

![image](../images/events_select_patient.png){.align-center width="99.0%"}

After choosing a patient, the patient visit dropdown will be filtered
and only shows the visits that belong to the selected patient. Now you
can simply select the patient visit to update:

![image](../images/events_select_patient_visit.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

As soon as a patient visit is selected, form fields are loaded with
selected visit data. After making changes, you can click the save button
to submit changes.

![image](../images/events_update_patient_visit.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

## All Collections

All Collections are listed in the initial dropdown. Here you can simply
select the collection you want to view. As an example, **Biosamples**
collection is selected as below:

![image](../images/allcollections_biosamples.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

At the top of the table, action buttons are located. Please see their
details at below:

![image](../images/allcollections_buttons.png){.align-center width="50.0%"}

### Insert

You can insert data into the collection by using the insert button. It
will open the form window for data submission. Please check the example
below.

![image](../images/allcollections_biosamples_insert.png){.align-center
width="90.0%"}

### Edit

After clicking one of the checkboxes, you can start editing by clicking
the edit button. A similar form window will open for editing. If you
choose multiple items at the same time, it will allow you to update
certain fields of the selected data and keep the rest as it is. Please
check the example below:

#### Single Data Edit

![image](../images/allcollections_biosamples_edit_one.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

#### Multiple Data Edit

![image](../images/allcollections_biosamples_edit_multiple.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

### Delete

In order to remove data from collections, you can select one or multiple
items with checkboxes and click the delete button.

### Edit in Spreadsheet

Another way to edit multiple items is using spreadsheet view. After
clicking the **Edit in Spreadsheet** button, the spreadsheet format will
be visualized.

Table View:

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_spreadsheet0.png){.align-center
width="70.0%"}

Spreadsheet View:

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_spreadsheet1.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

Now, you can copy and paste into multiple fields as in the Excel file.
As an example, the **1st visit** value is filled into four cells by copy
and paste below. Updated cells are highlighted.

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_spreadsheet2.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

After clicking **Save Changes** button at the top, highlighted cells are
synchronized with database and status of update is shown as below:

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_spreadsheet3.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}

Table view:

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_spreadsheet4.png){.align-center
width="71.0%"}

### Download as Excel File

You can download all collection data by clicking the **Download as Excel
File** button.

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_excel_download.png){.align-center
width="71.0%"}

### Import Excel File

After you edit your data in Excel, you can import changes by clicking
the **Import Excel File** button.

![image](../images/allcollections_visit_excel_import.png){.align-center
width="99.0%"}
